In this lesson we are going to explore the most common building block of a saga which is a generator
function.
Now the generator function is a new ish feature that was brought into the javascript ecosystem and native
to JavaScript now and what it is is a function that resembles async await.
Now it's not exactly a single way.
It's got almost a different flair to it but it's very similar in the sense that with our async await
functions we await are asynchronous events right.
Our promise based events where we pause the execution instead of an async function.
Whenever we see the awake call while generator functions are very similar in the sense that they also
pause their execution whenever they see a specific key inside of the function and that key is called
a yield.
Now I'll show you what that looks like when we write our first generator function now in order for us
to do it.
There's actually a special syntax we actually have to declare it with our old school style of writing
function declaration.
So we actually got a write function but what we do is we put the star to declare that this is a generator
function and then what we can do is we can name our function.
So I'm gonna name it Jen and it's going to take no parameters for now and all this function does is
it calls console dot log a just a letter A and then a console dot logs the letter B.
Now when we instantiate this function meaning that when we invoke it we actually get back this generator
object which we can cast as some variable G.
All right I'm just gonna name this constant G and it's gonna be equal to us invoking Jen the function.
Now if this is a regular function the moment I invoke Jen console log and console log B will be logged
out to our browser and then G would just be set to undefined because functions that don't return anything
would just return undefined but in our case when we invoke this Jen we see that nothing has happened.
In fact if we were to log our g we see we get this weird Jen the suspended generator kind of object
right.
So this is a generator object and what we do on it is we call dot next on it and what dot next will
do is it will actually resume the execution inside of our function.
So at this point when we invoked it for the first time we instantiated this generator object that actually
is aware of the code inside of this function but the execution inside of the function is paused.
So until we call Jen dot next this function actually will not run our console logs.
But the moment I do we see that it does it logs out a and b but then you see that we get back this object
from calling dot next and what it is is an object with a value prop and a done prop the dun prop is
a boolean telling us if there's anything else in the function to run or has it run through its entire
course which we know it does because all we did in our function was console log.
Things.
Now this will change once we start using the yield key and the Yuki will also give this value of value.
And I'm going to show you how that works let's refresh and let's make a new function right.
So again we're gonna call it Jen but this time we're gonna take some integer value and what we're gonna
do is we are going to yield the value that we pass in the next call we're going to yield I plus 10 so
that's all we've done is essentially we're saying we write this function right called John.
It takes some integer value some number and then it yields that number that we passed in.
And it also yields then the number plus 10.
So now we're gonna set some G value equal to our John initialized with the value of let's say actually
five.
Now what happens when we call it G Titan.
We know that we are going to actually get back that similar object that we saw before right.
You remember when we logged at the site when we invoke next the first time that object with the value
key and then the done key.
Well I'm actually just going to make sure to hold onto that value so I call it G OBJ right.
Right here and now when I call it you'll actually see that when we see what's on our G OBJ right.
Our G OBJ is equal to that object except now value is the I value that we yield it out the first time
and we'll also see that done is false meaning that there is more that we can actually continue the execution
on inside of our generator function if I were to call G dot next again this time.
Right.
And let's set it to another object.
Let's call it just J OBJ right well now we'll see that J OBJ has the value of the next yield at value
which is five plus 10 which gives us 15.
It also now sees that Dunn is still false if we were to call g the next one last time then we see that
the Dunn is true but there's no value that gets return in the undefined.
Now this is the main thing to remember with yields the moment we call yields inside of our generator
function the yield key is pretty much telling our generator function.
Oh hey I don't want to do anything with this right.
I'm just going to resolve it.
However it is if it's a asynchronous request I'm going to resolve the async request we're going to pass
that value out into this object that we get back.
Right.
And I'm gonna set it to the value prop.
Now you might be wondering when it's done.
Is there a way for us to get a value in this function.
Well actually there is.
The way that we would do it.
Right.
Let's just copy this is we would actually cast it as the return value so the last thing we can do is
say return twenty five.
And now if we did the same thing as we did last time with Gen 5 if I do G dot next G dot next right
we see that this is up to second yields.
If I do that next one more time while the final value that gets resolved is our return from our function
and then the done is true.
But the main benefit is that the yield will invoke the value right of whatever it's yielding and return
it outside of our generator.
This is primarily what generators are used for.
It's just if you want to stash multiple executions but you want to control when you want to move and
continue the execution in this function onwards and this is the basis of sagas sagas work on this yield
based format because they need to know and give us control over when we want to continue with an execution
of the block of code that we've written or we want to do something with the first now it'll make more
sense once we start writing it but I just wanted you to see this generator syntax I did not want you
to be confused by what we're about to write because what we're about to write is going to look kind
of different from code that we've written before.
The closest comparison I'm going to draw again is to async await.
But now that we've seen this as well we just need to remember that whenever we see yield we just need
to know that our code is stopping at this point even if it's asynchronous code just like async await.
So let's dive into implementing sagas into our code base.